>> Woodruff: IT WAS A BANNER
YEAR FOR MERGERS AND MARKETS,
THE BIGGEST SINCE THE FINANCIAL
CRISIS.
BUT IS BIGGER REALLY BETTER FOR
CPANIOMES, AND SHAREHOLDERS?
A LOOK AT THE YEAR'S DIZZYING
CYCLE OF DEAL-MAKING.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD:
AT HARVARD, USING NEW TECHNOLOGY
TO RESTORE FADED ROTHKO
MASTERPIECES TO THEIR FORMER
CRIMSON GLORY.
>> HE REALLY WANTED YOU TO BE UP
CLOSE AND SURROUNDED BY HIS WORK
SO THAT YOU COULD FEEL THE
PAINTING.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S FRIDAY.
ONRK SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERS
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: FRIENDS AND
RELATIVES LINED UP THIS
AFTERNOON AT THE WAKE FOR A NEW
YORK CITY POLICEMAN, RAFAEL
RAMOS.
HE WAS ONE OF TWO OFFICERS SHOT
DEAD LAST SATURDAY BY A GUNMAN,
WHO THEN KILLED HIMSELF.
HUNDREDS TURNED OUT AT A CHURCH
IN QUEENS, A DAY BEFORE THE
RAMOS FUNERAL.
AT THE SAME TIME, A SPONTANEOUS
MEMORIAL OF FLOWERS AND CANDLES
KEPT GROWING AT THE SITE OF THE
SHOOTINGS IN BROOKLYN.
MEANWHILE, IN OAKLAND,
CALIFORNIA, CHRISTMAS NIGHT
PROTESTS OVER RECENT POLICE
KILLINGS OF BLACK SUSPECTS
TURNED VIOLENT.
A CROWD SMASHED WINDOWS AND EVEN
WRECKED A PUBLIC CHRISTMAS TREE.
IN SYRIA, THERE'S NEW WORD OF
GOVERNMENT AIR STRIKES THAT
KILLED MORE THAN 50 PEOPLE IN
THE LAST TWO DAYS.
ACTIVISTS AND WITNESSES REPORT
WAR PLANES AND HELICOPTERS
DROPPED BARREL BOMBS ON TWO
TOWNS NEAR THE KEY CITY OF
ALEPPO.
THE AERIAL ASSAULT HIT
RESIDENTIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
TARGETS IN BOTH TOWNS, NOW HELD
BY ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS.
IN ADDITION TO THE DEAD, AT
LEAST 175 PEOPLE WERE WOUNDED.
NATIONS ALL AROUND THE RIM OF
THE INDIAN OCEAN MARKED 10 YEARS
TODAY SINCE THE TSUNAMI THAT
LEFT ALMOST 230,000 PEOPLE DEAD.
SURVIVORS AND RELATIVES OF THE
VICTIMS GATHERED AT SERVICES
FROM INDONESIA TO INDIA.
JACKIE LONG OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS.
>> Reporter: A GENTLE SMATTERING
OF FLOWERS, QUIET REMEMBRANCE IN
INDONESIA FOR THE DAY THE
TSUNAMI STRUCK.
THE DEVASTATING EFFECTS OF THE
WAVE THAT DAY TOUCHED COUNTRIES
ACROSS THE INDIAN OCEAN AND
BEYOND.
INDONESIA SUFFERED THE HIGHEST
NUMBER OF CAUSALITIES.
THIS IS ACEH PROVINCE, ONE OF
THE WORST-HIT AREAS OF THE
COUNTRY.
TODAY IN BANDA ACEH IN
INDONESIA, THE MESSAGE IS A
SIMPLE ONE.
"THANKS TO THE WORLD", THEY SAY.
35 COUNTRIES HELPED IN THE
RESCUE AND REBUILDING OPERATION
IN INDONESIA ALONE.
THE OCEAN QUEEN EXPRESS HEADS
ALONG THE COASTLINE SOUTH OF
COLOMBO IN SRI LANKA, A POTENT
SYMBOL OF THIS COUNTRY'S
ATTEMPTS TO MOVE ON.
1,000 PASSENGERS WERE KILLED
WHEN THE TSUNAMI RIPPED THE
TRAIN FROM THE TRACKS TEN YEARS
AGO.
FOR SOME, REBUILDING THEIR LIVES
HAS BEEN MORE OF A STRUGGLE.
RAMACHANDRAN, A FISHERMAN IN A
COASTAL TOWN IN TAMIL NADU IN
INDIA, LOST FIVE MEMBERS OF HIS
FAMILY.
MUCH HAS BEEN DONE TO MAKE THE
AREA SAFER SHOULD ANOTHER
TSUNAMI HIT, BUT HE SAYS THE
PEOPLE STILL LIVE IN FEAR.
>> ( translated ): NOW THINGS
ARE NORMAL, BUT NEVER KNOW WHEN
IT WILL COME AGAIN.
EVEN THOUGH THEY PUT THESE
STONES HERE TO STOP THE WATER
FROM COMING IN, WE ARE BRAVE TO
STILL LIVE HERE ON THE COAST.
>> Reporter: A POLICE BOAT SWEPT
A MILE INLAND BY THE TSUNAMI WAS
THE FOCAL POINT FOR OFFICIAL
COMMEMORATIONS IN THAILAND.
NEARLY FIVE AND A HALF THOUSAND
PEOPLE WERE KILLED HERE, HALF OF
THEM FOREIGN TOURISTS.
BUT AWAY FROM THE SPEECHES, ON
THE SANDS OF BEACHES WHERE SO
MANY DIED, RELATIVES AND FRIENDS
PAID THEIR OWN TRIBUTES, MAKING
SURE THE MEMORIES OF THEIR LOVED
ONES WILL NEVER DISAPPEAR.
>> Woodruff: THE TSUNAMI WAS ONE
OF THE WORST NATURAL DISASTERS
IN RECENT HISTORY.
THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT AND
PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS BEGAN A
MAJOR PRISONER SWAP TODAY,
INVOLVING SOME 370 SOLDIERS AND
REBELS.
THE EXCHANGE NEAR THE REBEL-HELD
CITY OF DONETSK WAS THE BIGGEST
SINCE FIGHTING BEGAN IN EASTERN
UKRAINE, EARLIER THIS YEAR.
A SEPTEMBER CEASE-FIRE LARGELY
FAILED, BUT THE LEVEL FIGHTING
HAS SLACKENED IN RECENT WEEKS.
NATO HAS CONDEMNED RUSSIAN
INTERVENTION IN UKRAINE, BUT
TODAY, THE KREMLIN STRUCK BACK.
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
APPROVED A NEW MILITARY DOCTRINE
THAT NAMES THE WESTERN ALLIANCE
AS THE NUMBER ONE MILITARY
THREAT TO RUSSIA.
THE CHANGE CAME AS PUTIN'S
GOVERNMENT IS BATTLING AN
ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN BROUGHT ON IN
PART BY WESTERN SANCTIONS OVER
UKRAINE.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, WALL
STREET CLOSED OUT CHRISTMAS WEEK
WITH NEW HIGHS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 23 POINTS TO CLOSE AT A
RECORD 18,053.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 33 POINTS TO
CLOSE NEAR 4,807, IT'S BEST
FINISH SINCE MARCH OF 2000.
AND THE S&P ADDED ALMOST 7, TO
FINISH AT 2,088-- ALSO A RECORD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
A BOOMING YEAR FOR THE STOCK
MARKET AND MEGA-MERGERS.
DETERIORATING CONDITIONS FOR
PEOPLE IN TERRITORY CONTROLLED
BY THE ISLAMIC STATE.
MEDICAID EXPANSION UNDER THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT AND THE
FINANCIAL HEALTH OF HOSPITALS.
HOW CONSERVATIONISTS ARE SHINING
NEW LIGHT ON IRREPLACEABLE ART.
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID GERSON ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS.
AND, A CARTOONIST TACKLES A MORE
SERIOUS SUBJECT-- CARING FOR
AGING PARENTS.
>> Woodruff: WITH LESS THAN A
WEEK TO GO, THE DOW JONES
AVERAGE MAY BE POISED TO FINISH
THE YEAR AT A RECORD HIGH.
OTHER STOCK INDEXES ARE ALSO
BACK TO HIGH LEVELS.
BUT THAT'S NOT ALL.
2014 HAS TURNED OUT TO BE THE
BIGGEST YEAR FOR MULTI-BILLION
DOLLAR MERGERS AND AQUISTIONS
SINCE THE FINANCIAL CRISIS HIT.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: MORE THAN $3
TRILLION IN DEALS WORLDWIDE HAVE
BEEN ANNOUNCED THIS YEAR, MANY
OF THEM INCLUDING AMERICAN
COMPANIES.
THERE HAVE BEEN SOME ENORMOUS
ONES IN THE PHARMACEUTICAL
WORLD.
DRUGMAKER ACTAVIS IS BUYING THE
MANUFACTURER OF BOTOX, ALLERGAN,
FOR $66 BILLION.
THERE ARE MORE THAN $400 BILLION
OF ANNOUNCED DEALS IN THE HEALTH
CARE SECTOR OVERALL.
MEDIA MEGADEALS WERE A PART OF
THE BOOM TOO.
COMCAST WILL PAY $45 BILLION FOR
TIME WARNER CABLE, IF REGULATORS
APPROVE IT.
WHAT'S BEHIND THE FRENZY?
AND WHAT KIND OF IMPACT DO THESE
DEALS HAVE ON THE COMPANIES,
EMPLOYEES AND THE ECONOMY
HISTORICALLY?
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO ANDREW ROSS
SORKIN, HE CO-HOSTS SQUAWK BOX
ON CNBC AND IS A COLUMNIST FOR
THE "NEW YORK TIMES" AND EDITOR
AT LARGE OF ITS DEALBOOK
SECTION.
SO, ANDREW, WHAT'S BEHIND UP A
THESE MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS
THIS YEAR?
>> WELL, WHAT'S BEHIND THESE
DEALS IS ACTUALLY WHAT'S BEHIND
THE MARKET WHICH IS CONFIDENCE.
MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS HAPPEN
TO BE PROBABLY ONE TO HAVE THE
BETTER BAROMETERS OF CONFIDENCE,
NOT SO MUCH IN THE MARKET
ITSELF, BUT ALSO THE BOARDROOM
AND CORNER OFFICES OF THE
BUSINESSES.
C.E.O.s FEEL BETTER ABOUT
THEIR BUSINESSES.
PROVERSELY, THEY DON'T DO DEALS
WHEN THEY SHOULD WHEN THE MARKET
IS LOW, BUT WHEN THE MARKET IS
BETTER, THEY FEEL BETTER ABOUT
THEIR OWN CONDITION.
IT'S A QUICK WAY TO ADD REVENUE
WHEN A LOT OF BUSINESSES ARE
STRUGGLING TO GROW UNTO
THEMSELVES SO THEY GO OUT AND
BUY.
THERE ARE REMARKABLY LOW
INTEREST RATES NOW, CASH ON THE
BALANCE SHEET.
YOU MENTIONED THE PHARMACEUTICAL
DEALS, A LOT WERE DRIVEN BY A
TAX INVERSION, THIS IDEA TTHA
YOU COULD GO EFFECTIVELY CHANGE
YOUR HEADQUARTERS ABROAD.
NOW THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT AND
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAVE
TRIED TO PREVENT THAT, BUT THOSE
WERE SOME OF THE THINGS THAT
CAME TOGETHER THIS YEAR THAT
PUSHED SO MANY OF THESE DEALS
ACROSS THE FINISH LINE.
>> Sreenivasan: IS IT THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS LOOK AT THE
CHEAP CASH OR DEBT AND LOOK AT
THE BIG STOCK PRICE SO THEY
ALMOST HAVE MORE CURRENCY TO
MAKE THE ACQUISITIONS?
>> THAT'S WHAT TRADITIONALLY
HAPPENS.
YOU HAVE A LOT OF CASH ON THE
BALANCE SHEET.
YOU THINK TO YOUR IS, WHAT CAN I
DO?
CAN I BUILD A NEW -- IF I BUILD
A NEW FACTORY ON MY OWN, WILL
THAT HELP?
OR COULD I GO BUY THAT BUSINESS
OVER THERE, WOULD THAT HELP ME?
AND, BY THE WAY, WOULD THAT HELP
ME SOONER?
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT HAPPENS
IN ALL OF THESE TRANSACTIONS IS
YOU ALWAYS HEAR THE WORD SYNERGY
OR RATIONALIZATION.
SO THE BAD NEWS IS THAT
TRADITIONALLY WHAT THAT MEANS IS
SOMEBODY'S LIESING THEIR JOB.
THEY'RE TRYING TO SAVE MONEY AND
CREATE ADDITIONAL PROFITS AND
THE WAY THEY DO TWO
BUSINESSES TOGETHER AND
SQUEEZING BY REMOVING THE JOBS
THAT OVERLAP.
>> Sreenivasan: IN THE SHORTLY
TERM WHEN WE SEE THE PRICE BUMP
ON THE COMPANY ABOUT TO GET
BOUGHT, HISTORICALLY DO MERGERS
MAKE SENSE BECAUSE ON THE FLIP
SIDE A LOT OF THE MERGERS START
TO DISSOLVE.
>> YOU ARE HITTING THE NAIL ON
THE HEAD.
AT LEAST 50% OF TRANSACTIONS,
BIG MERGERS LIKE, THIS FAIL, AND
SOME SPECTACULARLY.
ACADEMIC LITERATURE SUGGEST THAT
KEELS DEALS UNTO THEMSELVES ARE
NOT A PANACEA AND, IN FACT, ONEO
THE THINGS WE'RE SEEING THIS
YEAR IS THE BREAKUP OF MANY
COMPANIES.
HEWLETT PACKARD WHICH MERGED A
DECADE AGO IS SPLITTING UP,
EBAY IS SPLITTING UP.
THE BREAKUPS CREATE MORE VALUE
OVER TIME THAN THE MERGERS
THEMSELVES.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT'S THE
ROLE OF ACTIVIST INVESTORS?
WHAT ARE THEY DOING AND DOES
THAT INCREASE OR DECREASE THIS
FLEE OF MERGERS AND
ACQUISITIONS?
>> YOU'VE ALSO HIT ON ANOTHER
MAJOR TREND THIS YEAR THAT'S
REALLY CHANGING THE DYNAMIC
INSIDE THE BOARDROOMS OF SO MANY
OF THESE COMPANIES.
NOW THAT THERE ARE SO MANY
ACTIVIST INVESTORS PUTTING
PRESSURE ON BOARDS AND C.E.O.s
FOR PROFITS AND SOMETIMES
FRANKLY QUICK PROFITS.
THE BOARDS AND COMPANIES ARE
LOOKING TO DO DEALS IN PART TO
ANSWER THAT OUT OF FEAR FRANKLY
THAT THEIR JOBS COULD BE ON THE
LINE BECAUSE THESE ACTAVIS
INVESTORS COULD MOUNT PROXY
CONTEST TO KICK THEM OUT,
LEADING TO SOME OF THE BREAKUPS
OF THE COMPANIES WITH PRESSURE
FROM THE ACTIVISTS WHO HAVE
BECOME MORE INVOLVED THAT BE
BEFORE.
A LOT OF THE FOLKS ARE SCARED.
BY THE WAY, MAKING A DEAL
CREATES A HONEYMOON PERIOD, A 12
TO 24-MONTH PERIOD WHERE THEY
CAN LOOK AT THE INVESTOR AND SAY
WE'RE DOING SOMETHING, GIVE US A
LITTLE BIT OF TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: OKAY.
HOW ABOUT ALL THE DEALS AREN'T
ACTUALLY GOING THROUGH, IN THE
SENSE THAT I REMEMBER RUPERT
MURDOCH WANTED TO MAKE A PLAY
FOR TIME WARNER OR SoftBank
WAS INTERESTED IN TEAM MOBILE
BUT GOT SPOOKED BY REGULATORS --
>> THE OTHER MAJOR TREND OF 2014
HAS BEEN THE REGULATORS AND THE
CHANGE IN WASHINGTON WHICH HAS
BEEN MORE RETICENT ABOUT
TRANSACTIONS.
WE'RE WAITING TO SEE WHETHER A
NUMBER OF DEALS WILL CROSS THAT
FINISH LINE.
OTHER DEALS HAVE BEEN HELD UP.
YOU HAVE FOLKS LIKE RUPERT
MURDOCH, THE 20th CENTURY FOX
CORPORATION GOING AFTER TIME
WARNER, THAT NOT GOING THROUGH
BECAUSE THEY WITHDRAW THE OFFER,
BUT A NUMBER OF PHARMACEUTICAL
DEALS LED BY THE TAX INVERSION,
THE IDEA THEY COULD CHANGE THEIR
HEADQUARTERS AND CREATED ANOTHER
CITIZENSHIP IN ANOTHER COUNTRY,
SOME OF THESE DEALS HAVE BLOWN
UP BECAUSE THE REGULATORS SAID
WE'RE NOT ALLOWING THAT TO
HAPPEN.
>> Sreenivasan: ANDREW ROSS
SORKIN, THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU, HAPPY HOLIDAYS.
>> Woodruff: WE RETURN TO IRAQ
AND SYRIA WHERE THE BRUTAL
ADVANCE BY THE ISLAMIC STATE HAS
BEEN AT LEAST PARTIALLY CHECKED
IN BOTH COUNTRIES.
>> Reporter: THE NEARLY-FIVE-
MONTH-LONG U.S. AND ALLIED
BOMBING CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP CONTINUED
YESTERDAY AND TODAY, WITH 39
AIRSTRIKES IN SYRIA AND IRAQ.
THE STRIKES CAME ACROSS A LARGE
SWATH OF TERRITORY HELD OR UNDER
ATTACK BY THE FACTION ALSO
CALLED ISIS OR ISIL, TWO DAYS
AFTER THE GROUP CAPTURED A
JORDANIAN PILOT WHOSE FIGHTER
JET CRASHED IN ISLAMIC STATE
CONTROLLED TERRITORY.
TODAY'S ATTACKS WENT FROM
KOBANE, SYRIA, THROUGH THE
GROUP'S MAKESHIFT CAPITAL IN
RAQQA, ON TO SINJAR, IRAQ, NEAR
KIRKUK, AND IN MOSUL, IRAQ'S
SECOND-LARGEST CITY.
AND A PRIZE THE GROUP TOOK IN
JUNE, FCINGOR OUT THE IRAQI ARMY
WHILE BARELY FIRING A SHOT.
ON WEDNESDAY GWEN IFILL SPOKE
WITH JURGEN TODENHOFFER, A
GERMAN AUTHOR AND FORMER
LAWMAKER WHO'D RECENTLY SPENT
TEN DAYS WITHIN THE ISLAMIC
STATE AREA OF CONTROL.
>> Ifill: YOU SPENT TIME IN IRAQ
AND IN SYRIA, IN RAQQA AND IN
MOSUL.
WAS THERE A DIFFERENCE IN WHAT
YOU SAW IN THOSE TWO PLACES?
>> HERE, I ONLY CAN GIVE AN
IMPRESSION.
I HAD THE IMPRESSION THAT, IN
MOSUL, THEIR SUPPORT IS
STRONGER, A THNDAT IN RAQQA,
BASHAR AL-ASSAD IS STILL AT
LEAST AS STRONG AS I.S.
HE IS STILL PLAYING, PAYING
SALARIES TO HIS PEOPLE IN RAQQA
AND IT SEEMS TO WORK.
>> Ifill: SO, WHAT WERE YOUR
IMPRESSIONS ABOUT HOW STRONG
ISIS IS?
THERE IS SOME DEBATE HERE AND
AROUND THE WORLD ABOUT THE SCOPE
OF THE ISLAMIC STATE FORCES,
WHETHER IT FUNCTIONS AS A
GOVERNMENT, WHETHER IT HAS A
JUSTICE SYSTEM AND WHAT ITS
ULTIMATE GOAL IS.
WHAT IMPRESSIONS DID YOU TAKE
AWAY?
>> I GOT THE IMPRESSION THAT
I.S. IS MUCH STRONGER THAN OUR
WESTERN POLITICIANS THINK.
>> Woodruff: Reporter: THE
GROUP'S MILITARY STRENGTH HAS
BEEN MATCHED BY AN ONLINE MEDIA
ONSLAUGHT.
ITS NOW-INFAMOUS FILMS SHOWING
JOURNALISTS AND AID WORKERS, ARE
PAIRED WITH VIDEOS SHOWCASING AN
IDYLLIC LIFE UNDER ITS CONTROL,
MARKETPLACES FLUSH WITH GOODS,
CHILDREN EATING ICE CREAM IN
PARKS.
BUT THAT IDEALIZED PORTRAIT IS
AT ODDS WITH REALITY, ACCORDING
TO AN ARTICLE IN TODAY'S
"WASHINGTON POST."
IT DESCRIBES FAILING
INFRASTRUCTURE, POWER CUTS,
SKYROCKETING PRICES F SPAORRSE
GOODS, AND HUNGER.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT ARTICLE
WAS WRITTEN BY LIZ SLY, THE
WASHINGTON POSTS' BUREAU CHIEF
IN LEBANON.
I SPOKE TO HER A SHORT WHILE
AGO.
SHE IS IN ENGLAND RIGHT NOW,
WHERE I SPOKE TO HER JUST A
SHORT WHILE AGO VIA SKYPE.
AND A NOTE, THE NOISE YOU HEAR
DURING THE INTERVIEW WAS A SMALL
GLITCH WITH HER COMPUTER.
LIZ SLY, THANK YOU FOR TALKING
WITH US.
YOUR ARTICLE DESCRIBES
COLLAPSING GOVERNMENT SERVICES,
PEOPLE LIVING IN MISERABLE, EVEN
UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
FILL OUT THE PICTURE FOR US.
>> WELL, YES, FOR A LONG TIME I
THINK THE ISLAMIC STATE HAS MADE
IT PART OF THEIR REPUTATION, NOT
ONLY ARE THEY A FIGHTING FORCE
BUT THEY ALSO DELIVER THIS GREAT
GOVERNMENT.
I SET OUT TO FIND OUT HOW THEY
DO THAT.
WHAT I FOUND OUT FROM THE SPEAK
I SPOKE TO IS THEY'RE NOT REALLY
DELIVERING GOVERNMENTS OR
SERVICES.
SEVENS ARE BEING DELIVERED ARE
COMING FROM GOVERNMENT WORKERS
WHO ARE STILL RECEIVING SALARIES
AND DOING WHAT THEY CAN UNDER
VERY DIFFICULT CIRCUMSTANCES BUT
THEY'RE BEING PAID BY THE
GOVERNMENT, NOT BY THE ISLAMIC
STATE, AND THERE'S A LITTLE BIT
OF WESTERN AID GETTING IN.
BUT REALLY PEOPLE ARE STARTING
TO SUFFER A LOT FROM SHORTAGES
OF MEDICINE, UNSANITARY WATER, A
LACK OF FOOD, VERY HIGH PRICES
AND VERY, VERY LITTLE HELP
REACHING THEM.
>> Reporter: AND YOU DESCRIBE
VICTIM RULES BEING IMPOSED?
AT ONE POINT YOU WROTE ABOUT
HOSPITAL WORKERS AT A MEETING
AND THEY WERE DETAINED BECAUSE A
COUPLE WERE SMOKING?
>> IT'S ONE THING TO IMPOSE
STRICT RULES.
IT'S ANOTHER THING TO ACTUALLY
MAKE SOCIETY WORK.
THEY ARE CONTINUING TO IMPOSE
VERY STRICT RULES.
PEOPLE ARE BEING EXECUTED FOR
CURSING GUARDS, DETAINED FOR
SMOKING.
BUT SOCIETY AS WE NORMALLY THINK
OF IT IS MOTT ACTUALLY
FUNCTIONING.
>> Woodruff: WE HAVE JUST BEEN
TALKING ABOUT THE REPORTING DONE
BY A GERMAN JOURNALIST WHO
WROTE, OF ALL THE INSURGENT
GROUPS HE'S SEEN, HE THINKS
ISLAMIC STATE IS THE MOST
DETERMINED, THE MOST EFFECTIVE,
THE STRONGEST.
THIS IS A VERY DIFFERENT
PICTURE, ISN'T IT?
>> WELL, I'M NOT SURE IT'S AN
ENTIRELY DIFFERENT PICTURE.
I'VE SEEN HIS REPORTING, I'VE
SEEN HIS CONCLUSIONS.
I DON'T THINK THIS MEANS THEY
WILL BE DEFEATED MILITARILY
SOON.
I WASN'T LOOKING AT THE MILITARY
ASPECT OF THEIR STRUCTURE AND
ORGANIZATION, I WAS LOOKING AT
ABILITY TO DELIVER ON THE GROUND
GOVERNMENT FOR THE PEOPLE WHO
THEY CLAIM TO BE RULING IN THE
NAME OF ISLAM.
THEY ARE NOT DELIVERING THAT
GOVERNMENT.
I STILL THINK THEY HAVE A
FIGHTING FORCE THAT THEY ARE
MILITARILY CAPABLE.
BUT THERE ARE NO ALTERNATIVES
FROM THE GROUND.
THE FACT THAT THE GOVERNMENT IS
SUSTAINING, I DON'T THINK THEY
NECESSARILY WILL BE DEFEATED IN
THE SHORT TERM UNDER CURRENT
CIRCUMSTANCES.
BUT IN THE LONG TERM, I
QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW SUSTAINABLE
THEY ARE AND IN THE LONG RUN
PEOPLE WILL START TO TURN
AGAINST THEM.
>> Woodruff: YOU WRITE ABOUT
THE MORALE AMONG SOME OF THE
FIGHTERS.
YOU SAY IT'S STARTING TO SLIDE.
WHAT DID YOU FIND ABOUT THAT?
>> THAT'S ANOTHER INTERESTING
ASPECT.
I THINK WE'RE ONLY STARTING TO
SEE RIGHT NOW WHICH IS THAT
WE'RE STARTING TO GET THE
SUPPORT OF FIGHTERS ON THE
GROUND NOT BEING NECESSARILY
HAPPY.
I HAVE HEARD A NUMBER OF
ANECDOTES OF FIGHTERS WHO ARE
TRYING TO LEAVE, WHO FIND IT
HARD TO LEAVE BECAUSE THEY
CONFISCATE YOUR PASSPORTS AND
IDENTITY DOCUMENTS WHETHER
SYRIAN, IRAQI OR FOREIGN
FIGHTER.
IT'S NOT EASY TO LEAVE, BUT I'VE
HEARD OF PEOPLE TRYING TO LEAVE
AND PEOPLE TRYING TO SWAP
DOCUMENTS WITH OFFER SYRIANS SO
THEY CAN GET OUT OF THE COUNTRY
USING THOSE DOCUMENTS.
WE'VE ALSO HEARD OF A NEW POLICE
FORCE SET UP TO GO AROUND AND
DETAIN FIGHTERS WHO ARE SHIRKING
DUTIES AND HIDING AT HOME.
SO I ALSO THINK THAT THINGS
MIGHT NOT BE ENTIRELY GOOD ON
THE MILITARY SIDE AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: AND JUST FINALLY,
YOU FEEL CONFIDENT ABOUT YOUR
SOURCES FOR THIS?
>> WELL, YES.
YOU CAN MEET PEOPLE WHO LIVE
THERE VERY EASILY.
YOU CAN GO TO TURKEY.
PEOPLE TRAVEL BACK AND FORTH.
PEOPLE COME FOR MEDICAL
TREATMENT.
THEY HAVE RELATIVES THERE.
THE ONLY COMING OUT OF THE
ISLAMIC STATE STATE ARE COMING
FROM TOOKY.
YOU CAN TALK ABOUT PEOPLE WITH
DIRECT EXPERIENCE OF DELIVERING
GOVERNANCE IN THOSE AREAS.
THEY DIDN'T WANT IDENTITIES
DISCLOSED BECAUSE THAT'S VERY
DANGEROUS FOR THEM.
BUT I TALKED TO A LOT OF PEOPLE
AND BUILD UP A VERY CLEAR
PICTURE NOT BEING AS ROSY IN THE
ISLAMIC STATE AG AS THEY PORTRAY
IT TO BE.
>> Woodruff: LIZ SLY REPORTING
FOR "THE WASHINGTON POST."
WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE WHITE HOUSE
SAID THIS WEEK THAT MORE THAN
6.4 MILLION PEOPLE HAVE SIGNED
UP FOR HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
THROUGH THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT'S FEDERAL MARKETPLACE SO FAR
DURING THIS YEAR'S OPEN
ENROLLMENT SEASON.
BUT EVEN MORE PEOPLE, NINE
MILLION PLUS, HAVE GOTTEN
COVERED BY MEDICAID IN RECENT
MONTHS.
AND THE DECISION BY STATES
WHETHER OR NOT TO EXPAND THE
FEDERAL-STATE PROGRAM FOR THE
POOR AND DISABLED IS HAVING A
SERIOUS EFFECT ON THE FINANCIAL
HEALTH OF HOSPITALS.
SARAH VARNEY, FROM OUR PARTNER,
KAISER HEALTH NEWS, HAS THE
STORY.
A STEADY DRIZZLE HASN'T
DETERRED JASON RITEN FROM COMING
TO THIS CLINIC IN SOUTH SEATTLE
TO SEE IF HE QUALIFIED FOR APPLE
HEALTH, WASHINGTON'S POPULAR
MEDICAID PROGRAM.
>> YOU DON'T HAVE ANY MEDICAL
INSURANCE, RIGHT?
>> NO.
AND HOW ABOUT DENTAL?
NO.
DENTAL OR MEDICAL IN.
NE.
>> Reporter: HE'S GONE WITHOUT
HEALTH INSURANCE FOR 16 YEARS.
>> YOU HAVE PROOF FOR THE
WASHINGTON PROGRAM.
>> OKAY.
>> Reporter: HE CAN COME TO
THIS NEIGHBOR CARE HEALTH CLINIC
INSTEAD OF AN EMERGENCY ROOM TO
SEE A PHYSICIAN.
IT'S HIS FIRST INSURED PRIMARY
CARE CHECKUP SINCE BECOMING AN
ADULT.
>> TAKE BREATHS IN AND OUT AND
RELAX.
>> Reporter: MEDICAID HAD LONG
BEEN RESTRICTED MOSTLY TO POOR
CHILDREN, WOMEN AND THE
DISABLED.
UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT,
THEY COULD OPEN UP THEIR PROGRAM
TO NEARLY ALL POOR ADULTS.
27 STATES AND THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA ACCEPTED THE FEDERAL
FUNDS TO DO SO.
THE STATE OF WASHINGTON TOOK UP
THE CAUSE FOR THE MISSION-LIKE
ZEAL.
KING COUNTY OFFICIALS WORKED
CLOSELY WITH COMMUNITY PARTNERS
TO PUT ADVERTISEMENTS AND
ENROLLMENT HELPERS IN THE PLACE
VISITED BY THE WORKING POOR.
LIKE LIBRARIES.
BUS STATIONS.
COURTS.
FOOD BANKS.
EVEN RESTAURANTS.
>> WE WANT EVERYONE IN OUR
COUNTY TO HAVE --
>> Reporter: WASHINGTON BLEW
PAST MEDICAID ENROLLMENT TARGET
IT DIDN'T EXPECT TO REACH TIM
2017.
THE COUNTY ACTED QUICKLY BECAUSE
IT COULD NO LONGER BEAR THE COST
OF SO MANY UNINSURED RESIDENTS.
>> THE COST IN ABSENTEEISM IN
WORK, IN DAYS MISSED AT SCHOOL
AND IT COSTS US ON OUR
HEALTHCARE BILLS.
IT IS IRRATIONAL, AND THE A.C.A.
PRESENTED US AN OPPORTUNITY TO
HAVE A MORE RATIONAL SYSTEM
WE TOOK IT.
>> Reporter: THE EFFORTS TO
SIGN U UP WASHINGTON RESIDENTS R
MEDICAID HAS BEEN A BOON AT
HOSPITALS.
THE PERCENTAGE OF UNINSURED
PATIENTS AT THIS HOPPED HAS
DROPPED FROM 14% TO 4%.
UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT,
MOST PEOPLE WHO WALK THROUGH
HARBORVIEW'S DOORS ARE ELIGIBLE
FOR SOME FORM OF INSURANCE.
IN THE PAST, HARBORVIEW WOULD
HAVE TREATED UNINSURED PATIENTS
AND BEEN STUCK WITH THE BILL.
HARBORVIEW PROVIDED $220 MILLION
IN UNCOMPENSATED OR CHARITY CARE
LAST YEAR.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HELPED
CARE SOME OF THE COSTS SINCE
HOSPITALS CAN'T TURN PATIENTS
AWAY FROM THE E.R.
DUE DURING ASSOCIATIONS OVER THE
HEALTH LAW, HOSPITALS TOOK A BIG
GAMBLE AND AGREED TO STAGGERING
CUTS IN FEDERAL UNCOMPENSATED
CARE PAYMENTS WITH THE
EXPECTATION THEY WOULD SOON HAVE
MILLIONS OF NEW MEDICAID
CUSTOMERS.
FOR HOSPITALS WHO EXPANDED
MEDICAID THE BET PAID OFF.
>> WE ANTICIPATE OUR NUMBERS FOR
CHARITY CARE THIS YEAR WILL
REDUCE 20 MILLION TO 30 MILLION
AND AS WE CONTINUE TO GET MORE
PATIENTS SIGNED UP WE SEE THAT
FLATTENING.
>> Reporter: MOVING MEDICAID
PATIENTS AWAY FROM EXPENSIVE
EMERGENCY CARE TO PRIMARY CARE
CLINICS IS ANOTHER WAY THE
HOSPITAL IS TRYING TO SAVE
MONEY.
SEATTLE RESIDENT ZOE AZALEA SAYS
IT IS A CHANGE THAT HAS  HER HEH
AGAIN.
FOR THREE YEARS, THE FORMER
NURSE RELIED ON YOGA IN THE PARK
AS ONE OF HER ONLY MEANS OF
DEALING WITH CRIPPLING PAIN.
ACCIDENTS CAUSED HER TO LOSE
WORK AND SHE LOST HEALTH
INSURANCE.
THE RESULTS WERE DEVASTATING.
>> I WASN'T ABLE TO USE THIS
HAND OR GRIP.
I COULDN'T EVEN PICK UP A WATER
BOTTLE.
>> Reporter: A SOCIAL WORKER
CALLED AZALEA AT HOME AND URGED
HER TO ENROLL IN APPLE HEALTH.
NOW THAT SHE HAS HER MEDICAID
CARD SHE HAS BEEN ABLE TO GET
PHYSICAL AND OCCUPATIONAL
THERAPY AND SEE SPECIALISTS
INCLUDING A SPINE DOCTOR.
DR. RICHARD GOSS IS THE MEDICAL
DIRECTOR AT HARBORVIEW AND HID
INSURED PATIENTS GET BETTER
ACCESS TO MEDICAL CARE THAN
UNINSURED ONES.
>> OVER THE MANY YEARS I'VE
WORKED HERE I'VE SEEN ALL TOO
MANY SCENARIOS WHERE PEOPLE
DISEASE ORH CANCER, ADVANCED
STROKES AND THEY'D GONE FOR MANY
YEARS WITHOUT ACCESSO T CARE.
WHEN THERE'S BASIC HEALTHCARE
COVERAGE, SO MANY MORE DOORS ARE
OPEN.
>> Reporter: ACROSS THE
NATION, HOSPITALS IN STATES THAT
EXPANDED MEDICAID RECORDED SHARP
DECLINES IN UNINSURED
ADMISSIONS, 30% IN THE FIR 2014%
IN THE SECOND QUARTER.
UNPAID HOSPITAL BILLS ARE
EXPECTED TO FALL BY $4.2 BILLION
THIS YEAR IN STATES THAT ALLOWED
POOR ADULTS INTO MEDICAID AND
STATES THAT DIDN'T THE DROP IS
EXPECD TOTE BE 1.5 BILLION,
MOSTLY FROM PEOPLE WHO BOUGHT
PRIVATE COVERAGE IN THE N
MARKET PLACES.
>> WHEN THE LAW PASSED AND THE
HOSPITALS SIGNED ON FOR THESE
CARDS, MEDICAID EXPANSION WAS
EXPECTED TO BE MANDATORY IN
EVERY STATE.
OF COURSE, THAT CHANGED WHEN THE
SUPREME COURT MADE MAICTD
EXPANSION OPTIONAL AND THE
HOSPITALS ARE REALLY THE ONES
CAUGHT IN THE CROSSHAIRS OF THAT
DECISION.
>> Reporter: PIERSON SAYS IT'S
A PRECARIOUS TIME FOR HOSPITALS
BECAUSE OF THE CUTS FOR CORAL
THE UNINSURED THEY AGREED TO
WHEN THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WAS
BEING DEBATED.
>> SOME OF THESE HOSPITALS MAY
END UP IN THE RED AS A RESULT OF
FAILURE TO EXPAND MEDICAID AND
THEY EVE CUT GROWTH EACH YEAR SO
IF PROBLEM WILL GET WORSE OVER
TIME.
>> Reporter: HERE IN
WINCHESTER, VIRGINIA, IN THE
SHENANDOAH VALLEY, THE LOCAL
HOSPITALS HERE ARE ALREADY
BEGINNING TO FEEL THE FEDERAL
CUTS.
THE PERCENTAGE OF UNINSURED
RESIDENTS HAVE DECLINED VERY
LITTLE.
VIRGINIA'S REPUBLICAN-CONTROLLED
LEGISLATREU HAS REJECTED PLEAS
BY THE STATE HOSPITAL
ASSOCIATION TO EXPAND MEDICAID,
LEAVING HOSPITALS LIKE
WINCHESTER MEDICAL CENTER RUN BY
VALLEY HEALTH SYSTEM FACING
DOUBLE JEOPARDY.
>> DIABETES.
YES.
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE.
HIGH CHOLESTEROL.
YES.
>> Reporter: VALLEY HEALTH
LAID OFF 28 PEOPLE AND IS
LOOKING AT COSTLY SERVICES LIKE
TRAUMA CENTERS THAT TREAT PEOPLE
AFTER CAR ACCIDENTS AND OTHER
SERIOUS INJURIES.
MARK MARROW IS THE C.E.O. OF
VALLEY HEALTH.
>> THAT'S EXPENSIVE ENDEAVORS
AND A AND WE HAVE TO EVALUATE TE
PROGRAMS WE CAN SUSTAIN.
THERE IS A NEED TORE TRAUMA
SERVICES HERE BUT IF WE CAN'T
SUSTAIN THEM WE HAVE TO EVALUATE
WHETHER OR NOT WE CAN CONTINUE
THEM.
>> Reporter: MERROWND A OTHER
HOSPITAL EXECUTIVES SAID IT
COULD LEAD TO A NEW TYPE OF
TWO-TIERED SYSTEM IN HOSPITALS,
BETWEEN THOSE ABLE TO MAINTAIN
ROBUST SERVICES IN STATES LIKE
WASHINGTON AND THOSE LIKE
VIRGINIA SLIDING INTO GREATER
FINANCIAL UNCERTAINTY.
I'M SARAH VARNEY IN WINCHESTER,
VIRGINIA, FOR THE PBS
"NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: NOW, AN ART
RESTORATION BREAKTHROUGH.
AN INTERNATIONAL TEAM OF ART
HISTORIANS AND CURATORS HAVE
DEVELOPED A NEW TECHNIQUE TO
RESTORE WORKS OF ART WITHOUT
EVER TOUCHING THEM.
IT'S BEING USED FOR THE FIRST
TIME ON A MARK ROTHKO MURAL.
JARED BOWEN FROM WGBH IN BOSTON
HAS THIS REPORT.
>> EVEN IN 1960, IT WAS A COUP,
WHEN HARVARD UNIVERSITY LANDED
MARK ROTHKO TO PAINT A SERIES OF
NEW MURALS FOR ITS NEW PENTHOUSE
DINING ROOM.
ROTH COE IS ALREADY CONSIDERED
ONE OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST
ARTIST AND THIS WAS TO BE ONE OF
HIS BIGGEST COMMISSIONS.
>> HE WANTED YOU TO BE UP CLOSE
AND SU SURROUNDED BY HIS WORK TO
FEEL THE PAINTING.
>> HE DEVELOPED FIVE PABLES AND
THEY'RE ON VIEW IN THE HARVARD
ART MUSEUM'S FIRST SPECIAL
EXHIBITION.
THEY WERE ROBUSTLY READ SAYS
CURATOR.
>> WE HAVE BEEN FOCUSING ON
THESE KIND OF PURPLES AND
CRIMSON, AS WE LIKE TO SAY, OF
COURSE, AT HARVARD.
THE GROUND OF CRIMSON OR PURPLE
IS THEN SET OFF WITH THESE
EXTRAORDINARY CONTRASTS OF THIS
RED THAT IS JUST INCREDIBLE.
AS YOU LOOK AT ANY OF HIS
PAINTINGS, THE PLAY OF COLOR AND
CONTRAST BLENDING AND THEN
WORKING AGAINST AND WITH EACH
OTHER HAS ALWAYS BEEN ESSENTIAL
TO HIS WORK.
>> THE PANELS WERE OFFICIALLY
INSTALLED IN 1964 BUT WERE IN
STEEP COMPETITION WITH THE ROOMS
HARVARD YARD VIEWS.
THE PENTHOUSE SHADES WERE RARELY
DRAWN AND THE LIGHT-SENSITIVE
MURALS SUFFERED SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE.
>> AS THE SUN WOULD TRAVERSE THE
SKY, THE PAINTINGS BECAME FADED
AND IN AN UNEVEN WAY BECAUSE OF
THE GEOMETRY OF THE ROOM SO SOME
PARTS WERE SHADOWED, SOME PARTS
RECEIVED MORE SUNLIGHT.
THE PAINTINGS CHANGED SO WHAT
STARTED OFF AS A UNIFIED WHOLE
SLOWLY DRIFTED APART.
>> BY 1979, HARVARD REALIZE THEY
WERE DAMAGED AND REMOVED THEM.
THE THREE PAINTED BY ROT ROTHKOE
PUT IN STORAGE.
>> IT'S BEEN SAD THAT THIS
EXTRAORDINARY WORK OF ART HAS
NOT BEEN INCLUDED IN THE ART
HISTORY OF ROTHKO, SO WE'VE
BROUGHT THE WORKS BACK TO A
PLACE TO STUDY THEM AND
RECOGNIZE THE ACHIEVEMENT.
>> Reporter: 35 YEARS AFTER
REMOVAL, ROTHKO'S MURALS ARE
ONCE AGAIN ON VIEW HUNG IN THE
SAME CONFIGURATION IN A ROOM
WITH THE SAME DIMENSIONS AND
AGAINST WALLS PAINTED THE SAME
OLIVE MUSTARD ROTHKO HIMSELF
CHOSE.
>> THIS BRINGS HIM BACK AND PUTS
THEM IN THE MIDDLE OF HIS ENTIRE
HISTORY IN A MAJOR WAY.
>> Reporter: BUT THEY HAD TO
BE HUNG WITHOUT TOUCHING
CANVASSES SITES NARAYAN
KHANDEKAR.
ROTHKO MIXED HIS OWN PAINT
MAKING TOUCHUPS DIFFICULT.
>> HE USED A MEDIUM WHICH GIVES
A POROUS SURFACE AND IF YOU PUT
A VARNISH OVER THAT IT WOULD
CHANGE THE COLOR RELATIONSHIPS.
EVERYTHING THAT WE DO AS A
CONSERVATION HAS TO BE
RESTORABLE.
>> Reporter: HOW TO RESTORE
THE ROTHKOS TO ORIGINAL GLORY
WITHOUT TOUCHING?
THEY COLLABORATED WITH
CONSERVATION TEAMS FROM M.I.T.
AND UNIVERSITIES IN SWITZERLAND.
THEY REPRESENTED THE PAINTICS
PIXEL BY PIXEL AND COLOR BY
COLOR.
>> WE HAD ACCESS TO A PANEL
SHIPPED TO CAMBRIDGE WHICH HAD
UNFADED SECTIONS AND WERE ABLE
TO USE THOSE TO MAKE THE FINAL
ADJUSTMENTS ON THE DIGITAL IMAGE
OF WHAT THE PAINTINGS LOOKED
LIKE.
>> Reporter: THE DIGITAL
RECREATION IS PROJECTED WITH
NON-THREATENING LOW LIGHT ON TO
THE CANVAS.
>> WE HAVE TO CALCULATE THE
COLOR AND THE INTENS INTENSITY H
TO HAVE THE PIXELS AND SHINE IT
IN EXACTLY THE RIGHT SPOT.
THE COLOR ON THE PAINTING CROSS
THE COMPENSATION IMAGE GIVES THE
INDIVIDUAL THE IMPRESSION OF
WHAT THE PAINTINGS LOOKED LIKE
IN 1964.
WE'RE CONFIDENT WE'RE AS CLOSE
AS CAN BE FOR THE PROJECT.
>> Reporter: THE TECHNOLOGY IS
A GAME CHANGER BUT ALSO RAISES
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHETHER
CONSERVATION IN THE DIGITAL AGE
FUNDAMENTALLY CHANGES THE ART.
ROTHKO'S COLOR IS BACK BUT NOT
BY HIS OWN HAND.
>> ONE OF THE KEY QUESTIONS IS
WHERE IS THE LINE BETWEEN THE
ORIGINAL WORK OF ART AND THE ART
THAT HAS THE PROJECTION SYSTEM
ON IT.
I MEAN, HAVE WE CHANGED WHAT HE
HAS DONE?
NO, WE HAVEN'T CHANGED HIS
CANVASS.
>> Reporter: BUT THEY HAVE
CHANGED THE POSSIBILITY THE
DAMAGED MASTERPIECES THE WORLD
OVER CAN ONCE AGAIN SEE THE
LIGHT OF DAY WITH THE
ELABORATELY CON FIGURED LIGHT OF
A PROJECTOR.
JARED BOWEN FOR THE "NewsHour"
IN BOSTON.
>> Woodruff: THE NEWS THIS
HOLIDAY WEEK WAS NOT EXACTLY
PEACE ON EARTH.
NEW YORK CITY IS MOURNING TWO
ASSASSINATED POLICE OFFICERS AND
SONY RELEASED ITS CONTROVERSIAL
FILM "THE INTERVIEW".
FOR OUR FRIDAY NEWS ROUNDUP, WE
ARE JOINED BY SYNDICATED
COLUMNIST MARK SHIELDS AND
"WASHINGTON POST" COLUMNIST
MICHAEL GERSON.
DAVID BROOKS IS AWAY.
HAPPY HOLIDAYS TO BOTH OF YOU.
>> LIKEWISE.
>> Woodruff: AS WE SAY, MARK,
THE NEWS IS KIND OF TOUGH.
LET'S TALK ABOUT SONY FIRST.
THEY WENT AHEAD AND RELEASED
THIS PICTURE, AFTER ALL, ONLINE
STREAMING AS WELL AS IN THE
THEATERS.
THE EXPECTATION IS THERE ARE
GOING TO BE MORE CYBERATTACKS
LIKE THE ONE ON SONY.
HAS THE U.S. HANDLED THIS THE
RIGHT WAY AND WHAT'S BEEN
LEARNED, DO YOU THINK?
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK THE
PRESIDENT HANDLED IT RIGHT IN
HIS PRESS CONFERENCE I THOUGHT
BY SAYING IT WAS AN ACT OF
VANDALISM RATHER THAN TERRORISM
BECAUSE IF IT'S AN ACT OF
TERRORISM THEN IT RISES TO THE
LEVEL OF NATIONAL SECURITY AND
THAT THERE HAS TO BE AN AMERICAN
GOVERNMENTAL RESPONSE.
JUDY, IT IS REALLY DIFFICULT TO
GENERATE ENORMOUS SYMPATHY FOR
SONY IN THIS.
THEY ARE NOT AN ADMIRAL
CORPORATE CHARACTER, AND THEY'VE
HARDLY HANDLED THEMSELVES THAT
WAY.
THE FACT THAT NORTH KOREA IS THE
HEAVY IN THE PIECE AND
DESERVEDLY SO, I JUST THINK THAT
WE ARE SEEING ONLY THE EDGES OF
WHAT CYBERSECURITY INVOLVES.
THE F.B.I. DIRECTOR SAID IN
OCTOBER THERE ARE TWO KINDS OF
BIG COMPANIES IN AMERICA, THOSE
THAT HAVE BEEN HACKED BY THE
CHINESE AND THOSE THAT DON'T
KNOW THEY HAVE BEEN HACKED BY
THE CHINESE.
>> Woodruff: BY THE CHINESE.
YEAH, AND I THINK NORTH KOREA
IS A SECONDARY OR TERTIARY
PLAYER IN THIS WHOLE DRAMA.
BUT THIS IS THE NEW REALITY.
>> Woodruff: BUT THEY STILL
WERE ABLE TO BULL THIS OFF.
MICHAEL, LESSONS LEARD?NE
>> IT HIGHLIGHTED A FEW THINGS.
ONE IS THE ROLE TO HAV OF THE N.
AN ORGANIZATION REVILED BY
SNOWDEN AND RAND PAUL AND OTHERS
BUT IT'S OUR FRONT LINE OF
DEFENSE WHEN IT COMES TO THESE
ISSUES.
THEY ARE HEAVILY INVOLVED IN
THIS CASE.
SO I THINK THIS IS AN IMPORTANT
PART OF OUR NATIONAL DEFENSE
THAT WE NEED TO TAKE SERIOUSLY.
I ALSO THINK THAT WE'VE MISSED
THE IMPORTANT EMPHASIS THIS LAST
WEEK WAS IN THE U.N. SECURITY
COUNCIL IN EXPOSING NORTH KOREA
NOT IN A SCREW BALL COMEDY BUT A
MAJOR REPORT AND A SECURITY
COUNCIL SESSION WHERE SAMANTHA
POWERS LAID OUT A CASE AGAINST
NORTH KOREA, HUNDREDS OF THOUS
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE, SYSTEMATIC
RAPE AND TORTURE, AN
UNBELIEVABLE CIRCUMSTANCE THAT
DESERVES A LOT MORE ATTENTION
THAN IT RECEIVES AND I'M AFRAID
CONTINUE VARIES ON THE MOVE
WHERE -- CONTROVERSY MAY HAVE
DISTRACTED FROM THE REAL NEEDS.
>> Woodruff: IT ALMOST GOT
OVERLOOKED.
>> THE N.S.A. HAS BEEN PLAYING
OFFENSE FOR A LONG TIME.
SO WE ARE AWARE THAT WE HAVE NOT
BEEN MISSING IN THIS ACTION.
JUST CHECK MRS. MERKEL'S PHONE
RECORDS, IF NOTHING ELSE.
>> Woodruff: WELL, THE
NORTH KOREAN INTERNET WENT DOWN
BUT ONLY FOR NINE OR TEN HOURS
AND BACK UP AGAIN.
>> IT'S NOT A HIGHLY-WIRED
SOCIETY.
IT HAD NO EFFECT ON NORTH KOREA.
>> Woodruff: THE OTHER STORY
WE'RE COVERING TODAY IS THE
FUNERAL OF THE NEW YORK CITY
POLICE OFFICER WHO WAS KILLED --
ASSASSINATED SITTING IN A PATROL
CAR LAST WEEKEND.
MARK, THIS COMES AS THERE HAVE
BEEN PROTESTS AROUND THE COUNTRY
ABOUT THE KILLING OF YOUNG
UNARMED BLACK MEN.
I GUESS MY QUESTION IS, IS THIS
A CONVERSATION THAT'S SHIFTED
THIS WEEK BECAUSE OF WHAT
HAPPENED TO THOSE POLICE
OFFICERS?
AND HOW DO WE AS A COUNTRY MAKE
ANY PROGRESS ON THIS ISSUE?
IT FEELS LIKE WE'RE STUCK ON
THIS.
>> TO ANSWER YOUR FIRST
QUESTION, YES, THERE'S NO
QUESTION IT CHANGED.
THERE'S A SENSE OF URGENCY.
WHAT HAD BEEN SEEMINGLY A
PATTERN OF TRAGEDIES AND THE
DIFFERENT CIRCUMSTANCES IN
STATEN ISLAND, CLEVELAND BEING
DIFFERENT FROM FERGUSON.
BUT A PATTERN THAT WAS
NONETHELESS DISTURBING.
THIS WAS AN ACT OF BLATANT
ASSASSINATION AND PEOPLE --
BECAUSE THEY WERE POLICE
OFFICERS.
AND I THINK, JUDE  Y, IT FORCES
US TO CONFRONT IT.
SO MANY OF US FELT, AFTER
PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA'S
ELECTION IN 2008, AND EVEN MORE
SO AFTER HIS REELECTION IN 2012,
THAT WE REACHED A WATERSHED IN
RACIAL RELATIONS IN THIS COUNTRY
THAT SOMEHOW WE'D GONE BEYOND
THE ORIGINAL SIN OF SLAVERY AND
RACISM AND ALL THE REST OF IT
AND NOW WE WOULD ACT LIKE A
HAPPY, WHOLE SOCIETY.
YOU KNOW, THE NUMBERS ARE
TERRIBLY DAUNTING.
THIS RECESSION HAS HIT
AFRICAN-AMERICANS, NON-WHITE,
NON-HISPANIC NON-WHITES HARDER
THAN ANYBODY ELSE.
WE KNOW WHAT WE DON'T NEED TO DO
AND THAT IS TO IGNORE THE ISSUE,
AND WE DON'T NEED TO IN ANY WAY
TURN OUR BACK ON THE FACT THAT
93% OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN CHILDREN
GO TO PUBLIC SCHOOLS, AND AS
SENATOR JOHN McCAIN SAID, I
THINK WISELY, THERE'S NO REASON
IN THE WORLD TO PAY A BAD
CONGRESSMAN MORE THAN A GOOD
TEACHER.
AND I THINK THE LAST THING IN
THE WORLD WE CAN DO IS TURN OUR
BACK ON PUBLIC EDUCATION IN THIS
COUNTRY AND CONCENTRATE OUR
EFFORTS AND ATTENTION.
>> Woodruff:.
>> Reporter: WHAT WE SHOULD BE
THINKING MORE ABOUT, ECONOMIC
AND EDUCATION?
>> NO, I AGREE WITH THAT, BUT
THERE IS A LARGE POLICING ISSUE
HERE, AND ONE OF THE MAIN
DIFFICULTIES, WE'VE HAD LARGE
SHIFTS OF WAY RACE IS VIEWED IN
AMERICA, THERE ARE GENERATIONAL
SHIFTS, ONE IN 12 MARRIAGES IS
NOW AN INTERRACL MIAARRIAGE IN
AMERICA AND THAT WILL SHIFT
OPINION OVER TIME.
BUT THERE ARE FUND MENTAL
DISAGREEMENTS ABOUT THE WAY THE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM IS
VIEWED BY WHITES AND BLACKS IN
AMERICA.
THIS IS LARGELY A MUNICIPAL
ISSUE, NOT A NATIONAL ISSUE.
A PLACE LIKE ST. LOUIS, MY HOME
TOWRNTION HAS NOT DONE IT WELL.
THAT I HAVE NOT BUILT TRUST.
THEY HAVE MUNICIPALITIES
DEPENDENT ON TICKET REVENUE, A
HISTORY OF RACIAL AND CLASS
PROFILING THE WAY TICKETS ARE
DONE.
IT'S PERCEIVED AS HARASSMENT.
THEN WHEN A CRISIS COMES,
THERE'S NO TRUST.
THERE'S NO RESOURCES OF TRUST TO
BUILD ON.
YOU LOOK AT A PLACE LIKE
LOS ANGELES WHICH HAD HUGE
PROBLEMS IN CONFLICT BETWEEN THE
COMMUNITY AND POLICE BUT HAD
GOTTEN BETTER IN THE LAST
DECADE.
THEY NOW HAVE A POLICE FORCE
VERY CLOSELY REPRESENTATIVE OF
THE RACIAL COMPOSITION OF
LOS ANGELES, A LOT OF TRUST
BUILT UP OVER TIME.
IT'S POSSIBLE TO MAKE THOSE
KINDS OF CHANGES.
>> THEY'VE WORKED AT IT.
HAVE AND HAD GOOD
LEADERSHIP.
BUT IT TAKES A LOT OF
INTENTIONAL EFFORT TO BUILD THAT
TRUST.
>> Woodruff: I MEAN, DO YOU
SEE ANY SIGNS THAT'S HAPPENING,
MARK?
WE'VE HAD THESE CONVERSATIONS,
THEN THE SHOOTING LIKE THAT WHAT
HAPPENED IN NEW YORK.
>> ANY NUMBER OF TOPICS CAN BE
DISCUSSED AT ANY TIME IN AMERICA
AND THIS HAS FORCED US TO
ADDRESS THE ISSUE.
YOU CAN MAKE THE DECISION TO
LOOK AT IT BRIEFLY AND THEN MOVE
AWAY OR IT CAN BE CENTRAL TO THE
2016 DEBATE.
I MEAN, RAND PAUL, IN ANOTHER
CONTEXT, HE HAS BEEN ANOTHER
VOCAL AND VISIBLE AND AS THE
FORMER DEMOCRATIC SENATOR OF
VIRGINIA HAD BEEN OF PEOPLE WHO
HAD BEEN CONVICTED OF A CRIME
AND WINNING BACK THE RIGHT TO
VOTE AND HAVE EMPLOYMENT.
I THINK THE ASSASSINATION OF THE
POLICE OFFICERS IS NOT
COMPARABLE BUT DIRECTS THE
ATTENTION LIKE THE ATTACK OF THE
DOGS IN THE CIVIL RIGHTS
MOVEMENT.
YOU CAN'T TURN AWAY FROM IT AND
THOSE FUNERALS AN THOSE FAMILIES
AND SAY THIS IS JUST A SIRNL
PROBLEM, A MINOR PROBLEM, WE
SHOULD DISCUSS WHETHER TO CUT
THE CAPITAL GAINS TAX INSTEAD.
>> Woodruff: I DO WANT TO
RAISE WITH YOU ALL SOMETHING
ELSE WE ARE WATCHING AS WE COME.
WE'RE JUST DAYS AWAY FROM THE
END OF THE YEAR.
IT WAS ONLY SEVEN WEEKS AGO THAT
WE HAD MID-TERM ELECTIONS,
PRESIDENT OBAMA SEEMED LIKE HE
WAS BACK ON HIS HEELS, COULDN'T
GET ANYTHING DONE.
BUT THEN IN THE COURSE OF SEVEN
WEEKS, IMMIGRATION REFORM
INITIATIVE, HE MOVED ON CLIMATE
CHANGE, ENVIRONMENTAL AGREEMENT
WITH THE CHINESE, AND THEN JUST
IN THE LAST FEW DAYS THE
ANNOUNCEMENT ABOUT NORMALIZING
RELATIONS WITH CUBA, AND THEN
THERE WAS A POLL THAT CAME OUT
JUST A DAY OR SO AGO, CNN SHOWS
THE PRESIDENT'S APPROVAL RATING,
ACTUALLY UP ONLY FOUR POINTS,
BUT IT'S GONE UP.
SO WHAT'S THE DEAL?
WHAT IS THE STORY?
AS WE HEAD INTO THE SEVENTH YEAR
OF HIS PRESIDENCY, HO HOW DO YOU
SEE THE BALANCE OF POWER BETWEEN
HIM AND CONGRESS?
>> I THINK YOU HAVE TO START BY
SAYING THAT THE PRESS NARRATIVE
OF THE PRESIDENT'S IRRELEVANCE
WAS ALWAYS ABSURD.
THE UNITED STATES PRESIDENT IS
NEVER IRRELEVANT.
HE HAS THE ABILITY TO DO THINGS.
GEORGE W. BUSH AT THE LOW POINT
OF HIS APPROVAL IN HIS SECOND
TERM DID THE IRAQ SURG.
I MEAN, HISTORICALLY QUITE
IMPORTANT.
PRESIDENTS HAVE THE POWER TO DO
THIS AND CAN.
THE REAL QUESTION IS WHETHER WE
NOW IN THIS FAIRLY SHORT
LEGISLATIVE WINDOW AT THE
BEGINNING TO HAVE THE NEW
CONGRESS, BEFORE WE GET INTO THE
2016 DEBATE WHERE REALLY ALL THE
LEGISLATIVE ACTION IS
OVERWHELMED, IS IT POSSIBLE TO
MAKE SOME PROGRESS HERE?
A LOT OF THAT DEPENDS ON WHAT
REPUBLICANS DO, WHETHER THEY
DECIDE THEY WANT TO PURSUE A
POSITIVE, INC. MENTAL AGENDA
EVEN IF VETOED BY THE PRESIDENT
THAT SHOWS WHAT THEIR VALUES ARE
OR WHETHER THEY WANT
CATASTROPHIC, CATACLYSMIC
CONFLICT OVER BUDGET AND
IMMIGRATION AND OTHER ISSUES,
YOU KNOW, UP OR DOWN VOTES ON
MAJOR ISSUES LIKE THAT.
THAT'S A DIFFERENT APPROACH, A
DIFFERENT STRATEGY.
I THINK REPUBLICANS ARE GOING TO
NEED TO BE MORE INCREMENTAL,
MORE HOPEFUL, MORE POSITIVE,
MORE POLICY-ORIENTED IN THIS
PERIOD IN ORDER TO SET UP THEIR
CANDIDATES.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU SEE
THE BALANCE?
>> I THINK THERE'S BEEN A CHANGE
IN BALANCE.
EVEN PRESIDENT OBAMA'S GREAT
ADMIRERS FELT HE WAS ENDURING
THE OFFICE RATHER THAN
EXHILARATING IN IT, AND EVERY
DISCUSSION OR DECISION WAS
CALIBRATED OF HOW IS IT GOING TO
AFFECT THE LOUISIANA RACE,
ARKANSAS, ALASKA.
IN A STRANGE WAY, IT'S BEEN
LIBERATED, IN A SENSE, SADLY BY
THE DEFEAT OF THE FOUR
DEMOCRATS, AT LEAST TO HIM.
HE FEELS REENERGIZED AND
CERTAINLY THE AUDACITY IS BACK
IN THE LITANY OF THE THINGS THAT
HE'S DONE.
IN ADDITION TO THAT, THE
REPUBLICANS FIND THEMSELVES IN A
VERY DIFFICULT POSITION.
REMINDS ME OF WHEN RONALD REAGAN
WAS IN OFFICE IN 1986 AND
DEMOCRATS IMMEDIATELY IN CHARGE.
RONALD REAGAN CLEARED
EVERYTHING.
JIM WRIGHT, DEMOCRATIC MAJORITY
LEADER, SAID YOU CAN'T HAVE IT
BOTH WAYS.
YOU CAN'T SAY REAGAN FOR SIX
YEARS DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TIME IT
WAS, WHAT DAY IT WAS AND NOW
HE'S THE DIABOLICAL MASTERMIND.
THE REPUBLICANS HAVE OBAMA CLARK
CACHARACTERIZED AS ONE WHO IS TO
STRONG, OVERMUSCULAR.
SO WE HAVE TO DECIDE WHICH OBAMA
THEY'RE GOING AFTER.
>> Woodruff: YOU HAVE TEN
SECONDS TO TELL ME WHICH OBAMA
THEY'RE GOING AFTER.
>> THERE ARE DIVISIONS ON THE
LEFT THAT THELD PLAY OUT AS WEL.
BOTH SIDES HAVE THEIR OWN
INTERNAL DIVISIONS.
>> Woodruff: GLAD NO DIVISIONS
HERE.
WELL, SOME.
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
A BRUTALLY HONEST, BUT FUNNY,
PORTRAIT OF CARING FOR ELDERLY
PARENTS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT.
>> Brown: THE ABDUREDTIES,
HORRORS, COMEDIES, MOST OF ALL
PERHAPS THE ANXIETIESF O
EVERYDAY LIFE.
THESE NEW YORKER COVERS COULD
ONLY HAVE BEEN DRAWN BY
LONG-TIME STAFF CARTOONIST ROZ
CHAST.
SHE GREW UP IN BROOKLYN IN
FLATBUSH.
HER DAD WAS AN ASSISTANT SCHOOL
PRINCIPAL AND HER MOM A HIGH
SCHOOL TEACHER.
AUTHOR OF SEVERAL BOOKS THIS
YEAR CHAST TACKLED AN
UNCOMFORTABLE SUBJECT BUT ONE
SHARED BY MANY.
CAN'T WE TALK ABOUT SOMETHING
MORE PLEASANT, A MEMOIR ABOUT
THE LAST FEW YEARS OF HER
PARENTS' LIVES.
IT WAS A FINALIST FOR THE
NATIONAL BOOK AWARD.
THE FIRST TIME A CARTOONIST
NOMINATED IN THE NON-FICTION
CATEGORY.
I TALKED WITH CHAST RECENTLY AT
THE MIAMI BOOK FAIR AND ASKED
HOW THIS BOOK CAME TO BE.
>> I THINK I HAVE A HABIT OF, IN
MY HEAD, TAKING NOTES ON
WHATEVER, YOU KNOW, WHETHER
THEY'RE VERBAL OR PICTORIAL OR
JUST MAKING A NOTE OF THINGS AS
THEY'RE HAPPENING AND, AT SOME
POINT, I THINK IT STARTED TO
DAWN ON ME THAT THERE WAS
ACTUALLY A STORY HERE THAT I
WANTED TO PUT ON PAPER.
>> Brown: IS THAT THE WAY YOU
WORK NORMALLY?
WHAT KIND OF NOTES?
WHAT WOULD THEY LOOK LIKE?
WHAT WOULD THEY SAY?
>> A LOT OF -- WELL, THERE WOULD
BE DRAWINGS AND NOTES, AND THE
MATERIAL FOR THIS BOOK, A LOT OF
IT -- SOME OF IT WAS CARTOONS
THAT I HAD SUBMITTED AS JUST
PART OF MY REGULAR WEEKLY
SUBMISSION.
THE OVEN MITT STORY WAS
SOMETHING THAT I HAD VISITED MY
PARENTS, AND I PICKED UP AN OVEN
MITT IN MY PARENTS' APARTMENT
AND SAID, YOU KNOW, WHY DO YOU
HAVE THIS?
IT'S DISGUSTING.
IT'S GREEDY.
IT'S FILTHY.
IT'S BURNED.
IT HAS PATCHES ON IT.
WHY ARE YOU PATCHING AN OVEN
MITT, MOM?
THEN I LOOKED AT THE PATCHES AND
I REALIZED THE MATERIAL FROM THE
PATCHES CAME FROM A SKIRT THAT I
HAD SEWN IN, LIKE, 7th GRADE
HOME ECONOMICS CLASS AND SHE
PROBABLY HAD THAT SKIRT
SOMEPLACE AS WELL.
IT WAS VERY TYPICAL OF MY
PARENTS.
>> Brown: I KNOW.
WE'VE COME TO REALIZE THAT IS
VERY TYPICAL.
>> YES.
>> Brown: THEY'RE HORDERS.
THEY KEEP EVERYTHING.
>> THEY KEEP EVERYTHING.
THEY CAN'T THROW ANYTHING AWAY.
THIS IS A HABIT FROM THEM HAVING
GROWN UP POOR.
THEY WERE CHILDREN OF RUSSIAN
IMMIGRANTS AND ALSO THEY
GRADUATED FROM COLLEGE INTO THE
DEPRESSION AND I THINK THOSE
SORT OF SCRIMPY HABITS CONTINUED
THROUGHOUT THEIR LIVES.
>> Brown: YOUR WORK IS OFTEN
VERY PERSONAL.
>> YES.
>> Brown: DID THIS TAKE YOU
INTO SOME DEEPER REALM?
>> YES, THIS WAS PROBABLY THE
MOST PERSONAL THING I'VE EVER
DONE.
I THINK WITH MY CARTOONS, THE
PARENT FIGURES ARE MY OWN
ARCHETYPES OF PARENTS AND
THEY'RE TAKEN FROM MY PARENTS,
PARENTS I'VE READ ABOUT, DREAMED
ABOUT AND MADE UP.
IT'S A MISHMASH.
EXCEPT IN THE CASE OF THE OVEN
MITT STORY WHICH IS ACTUALLY
TRUE.
BUT IN THIS CASE, THE PEOPLE I
WAS WRITING ABOUT WERE ACTUALLY
THEM.
>> Brown: AND THAT MEANT WHAT
FOR YOU?
>> LET'S PUT IT THIS WAY, I
COULD HAVE NOT WRITTEN IT UNTIL
AFTER THEY DIED.
>> Brown: WHICH, OF COURSE,
HAPPENS TO ALL OF US.
>> YES, OF COURSE.
>> Brown: AND SO MANY PEOPLE
CONNECT WITH WATCHING A PARENT,
IN SOME CASES, LIVE ON TOO LONG,
IF THAT'S OKAY TO SAY.
>> YES.
IT'S NOT JUST IF IT HAPPENS TO
YOUR PARENTS, IT ALSO WILL
HAPPEN TO US.
>> Brown: YES.
I KNOW.
I FORGET THAT MOST OF THE TIME.
>> Brown: BUT YOU MUST HAVE
PEOPLE COMING UP TO YOU ALL THE
TIME AND SAYING, YOU TOLD MY
STORY.
>> YEAH, MUCH MORE SO THAN I
EXPECTED.
>> Brown: YEAH.
I'VE GOTTEN MANY, MANY
LETTERS FROM PEOPLE WHO HAVE
SAID, YOU KNOW, DO YOU LIVE IN
MY HOUSE.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS EXACTLY MY
STORY.
I THOUGHT I WAS THE ONLY ONE WHO
WENT THROUGH THIS.
>> Brown: SPEAKING OF LIVING
IN YOUR HOUSE, SINCE WE'VE KNOWN
EACH OTHER A LONG I MOVED
INTO YOUR APARTMENT IN BROOKLYN
AND I ONLY BRING THAT UP BECAUSE
IT'S PART OF THE STORY HERE.
YOU MOVED TO CONNECTICUT.
>> YES.
>> Brown: AND THAT MEANT
MOVING AWAY FROM BROOKLYN WHERE
YOUR PARENTS WERE.
>> YEAH.
>> Brown: AND THAT'S ONE OF
THE HINGE POINTS OF THE STORY,
RIGHT?
>> YEAH.
THEY WERE STILL LIVING IN THE
APARTMENT WHERE I GREW UP.
WE HAD MOVED IN THERE IN 1959,
AND THEY NEVER BUDGED.
IT WAS REALLY AN ACCUMULATION OF
50 YEARS OF STUFF AND THEY NEVER
THREW ANYTHING AWAY.
EVER.
>> Brown: EVENTUALLY, YOU HAD
TO DEAL WITH IT?
>> YEAH.
YEAH, IT'S REALLY SAD.
IT'S KIND OF HORRIBLE.
>> Brown: YOU KNOW WHAT?
EVERYTHING ABOUT THIS IS SAD,
AND YET FUNNY, RIGHT?
>> YEAH.
>> Brown: I MEAN, YOU'RE
EXPLORING BOTH SIDES IN YOUR
CARTOON, IN YOUR BOOK.
>> THERE ARE FUNNY THINGS ABOUT
IT, YEAH.
>> Brown: ARE YOU AWARE OF THE
FUNNY PART AS YOU'RE DOING IT OR
DO YOU FIND THE HUMOR LATER?
>> IT REALLY DEPENDS.
SOMETIMES -- YOU KNOW, I THINK
IT'S A LOT OF THINGS.
AT THE TIME, EVERYTHING IS
EXTREMELY UPSETTING, AND THEN
YOU LOOK BACK ON IT AND IT
ACTUALLY CAN BE SORT OF FUNNY.
>> Brown: WHERE DID THIS ALL
LEAVE YOU?
WAS IT -- I MEAN, THE WRITING OF
IT?
WAS THAT CATHARTIC?
DID IT DO ANYTHING FOR YOU?
>> IT'S NOT CATHARTIC.
I DIDN'T WRITE IT FOR CATHARSIS.
I THINK ESPECIALLY WITH MY
PARENTS, I WANTED TO REMEMBER
WHO THEY WERE.
I WANTED TO REMEMBER ALL OF IT.
I DIDN'T WANT TO PURGE MYSELF OF
IT.
I WANTED TO REMEMBER IT.
I WANTED TO REMEMBER WHAT THEY
SOUNDED LIKE AND WEIRD STUFF
LIKE, YOU KNOW, HOW THEY STOOD,
THEIR POSTURE, THE KINDS OF
CONVERSATIONS THEY WOULD HAVE.
I DIDN'T WANT IT TO ALL BECOME,
YOU KNOW, LIKE ALL THE EDGES
SANDED OFF AND THEN IT'S JUST
THIS KIND OF LIKE, OGOT OLD ANDY
REMEMBER ANYTHING ABOUT THAT
TIME, YOU KNOW.
SO I FEEL LIKE I DID WRITE DOWN
AND KEEP TRACK OF ALL OF IT.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, ALL IN
THE BOOK "CAN'T WE TALK ABOUT
SOMETHING MORE PLEASANT."
ROZ CHAST, A REAL PLEASURE TO
TALK TOU., THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
HUNDREDS OF NEW YORKERS TURNED
OUT FOR THE WAKE OF A POLICE
OFFICER, RAFAEL RAMOS.
HE WAS ONE OF TWO POLICEMEN
MURDERED BY A GUNMAN LAST
SATURDAY.
THE RAMOS FUNERAL IS TOMORROW.
AND MORE THAN A DOZEN NATIONS
AROUND THE INDIAN OCEAN MARKED
THE TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
TSUNAMI THAT KILLED MORE THAN
230,000 PEOPLE.
SURVIVORS AND VICTIMS' RELATIVES
ATTENDED MEMORIAL EVENTS FROM
INDONESIA TO INDIA.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, WE REVISIT THE MUSICIANS WE
LISTENED TO IN 2014.
FROM CHARLES BRADLEY TO THE
BEATLES TO MELISSA ETHERIDGE,
GET AN EARFUL ON ART BEAT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: FROM THE STREETS OF
FERGUSON TO THE BILLION-DOLLAR
MID-TERM ELECTIONS, FROM SYRIA
TO UKRAINE TO NORTH KOREA, FROM
CONGRESS TO THE SUPREME COURT TO
THE WHITE HOUSE, WE TAKE A
SPECIAL LOOK AT THE YEAR-END
REVIEW TONIGHT ON "WASHINGTON
WEEK."
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: ON TOMORROW'S
EDITION OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
THE LATEST INSTALLMENT IN
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT JOHN
LARSON'S SERIES "FLYING COACH,"
WHICH OFFERS A DIFFERENT TAKE ON
AIR TRAVEL-- THE STORIES OF
PEOPLE HE ENCOUNTERS IN COACH
CLASS.
TOMORROW, JOHN TELLS US THE
STORY OF ONE WOMAN'S REMARKABLE
JOURNEY GROWING UP IN THE SOUTH.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY, WITH AN INTERVIEW
WITH THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF
STATE ABOUT RESTABLISHING FORMAL
RELATIONS WITH CUBA.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A WONDERFUL WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.